Dear Editors and Reviewers:
Thank you for your letter and for the reviewers’ comments concerning our manuscript entitled “A small GTP-binding protein GhROP3 interacts with GhGGB protein and negatively regulates drought tolerance in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.)” (ID: 1730298). Those comments are all valuable and very helpful for revising and improving our paper, as well as the important guiding significance to our researches. We have studied comments carefully and have made correction which we hope meet with approval. Revised portion are marked in red in the paper. The main corrections in the paper and the responds to the reviewer’s comments are as flowing:
Responds to the reviewer’s comments：

Reviewer 1
(1) Introduction: The introduction is well starting with the economic importance of cotton which is much appreciated. The other paragraph is well connected by describing the gene level in different crops. However, author goal is also related to the stress-related regulatory mechanisms. Overall, in the introduction I was unable to find the negative consequence or its negative effect in plant biology. the author should mention the overall effect of drought in the introduction. Please read and cite this as a reference. Entitle: Entitle “Response of drought stress in prunus sargentii and larix kaempferii ...https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foreco.2020.118099” Please mentioned that “drought reduced the morphological and physiological traits, reduce the leaf water potential and sap movement due to alternation of xylem anatomical features in the plants”. Then only the author should descript the other’s abiotic stress.

Response: We have re-written this part according to the Reviewer’s suggestion.
Cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) is one of the most important economic crops and plays an important role in the national economy; upland cotton is currently the main cultivar  REF _Ref102246791 \r [1]. Cotton is affected by a series of stresses during its growth. Among these, drought is the primary abiotic factor. Drought reduced the morphological and physiological traits, reduce the leaf water potential and sap movement due to alternation of xylem anatomical features in the plants REF _Ref102246791 \r [2]. Different molecular, biochemical, physiological, morphological and ecological traits and processes of the plants are impaired under drought stress conditions REF _Ref102246791 \r [3]. Thus, cotton yield and fiber quality are adversely affected in water deficit environments. In the long-term evolutionary process, plants have developed a set of gene regulation networks for drought adaptation. Elucidating the gene regulatory network might help cultivate new varieties of drought-resistant crops.

complementary literature 
[2]Bhusal, N.; Lee, M.; Han, A.R.; Han, A.; Kim, H.S. Responses to drought stress in Prunus sargentii and Larix kaempferi seedlings using morphological and physiological parameters. Forest. Ecol. Manag. 2020, 465: 118099.
[3]Seleiman, M.F.; AlSuhaibani, N.; Ali, N.; Akmal, M.; Alotaibi, M.; Refay, Y.; Dindaroglu, T.; AbdulWajid, H.H.; Battaglia, M.L. Drought stress impacts on plants and different approaches to alleviate its adverse effects. Plants, 2021, 10: 259.

(2) Hypothesis and objectives of the study: Author should rephrase the text more deeply about the hypothesis of the study and at the same time author should connect the objectives. In this study, author study the GhROP3 in the drought stress response. Silencing of the GhROP3 gene in cotton showed that it could improve tolerance. Please revise the text from lines no 77-83 write more logically by including both parts. The hypothesis of the study is an important thing, and it gives another strength to the introduction. The hypothesis should be very clear in the introduction sections because, without appropriate literature, questions, or hypotheses in the introduction section the entire text will be unclear. The author should give special attention and the sequential presentation of the content in the introduction with presenting the hypothesis of the study.

Response: lines no 77-83 the statements of “Yang et al. overexpressed the GhRac6 gene, which improved the resistance of transgenic plants to aphids and related aphid resistance indicators, implying that the gene positively regulated the defense response of cotton to aphids  REF _Ref102298655 \r [35]. However, the function-and stress-related regulatory mechanisms of ROP proteins in cotton in response to drought stress remain unclear. In this study, we analyzed the function of GhROP3 in the drought stress response. Silencing of the GhROP3 gene in cotton showed that it could improve the tolerance of cotton to drought stress.” were corrected as “ Yang et al. reported that the ectopic expression of GhRac6 from cotton improve Arabidopsis resistance to aphids by regulating some aphid resistance indexes  REF _Ref102298655 \r [35]. Taken together, current studies on cotton ROP proteins are concentrated on the development of cotton fibers and plant defense response to biotic stresses like pathogens and herbivorous insects. However, the function-and stress-related regulatory mechanisms of ROP proteins in cotton in response to drought stress remain unclear. In this study, we analyzed the function of GhROP3 in the drought stress response. Transcript abundance of GhROP3 gene changed after drought stress. We therefore speculate that as an important molecular switch, cotton ROPs should regulate various developmental processes and influence plant defense responses to drought stress which is the most important environmental challenge constraining plants. To prove this hypothesis, we further investigated the function of the GhROP3 gene in cotton defense against drought stress by using virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) technology. Silencing of the GhROP3 gene in cotton showed that it could improve the tolerance of cotton to drought stress.

(3) Discussion: Author should Improve discussion more logically with clearer. Author should include somewhere in a discussion about the antioxidant such as CAT and POD and secondary metabolites under drought stress condition and why formation the ROS under drought? Refer to these two articles for better clarify (1) https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-55889(2) https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021. 146466 and mention somewhere in that paragraph “abiotic stress especially environmental stress (I.e. drought) plant produces the ROS when these plant exposed to the stress condition and plant produce antioxidant, flavonoids, and secondary metabolites play to the role for protecting the plant for detoxifying ROS and protect the plant to protect the abnormal condition (i.e. stress) and protein and amino acid stabilization”.

Response: Considering the Reviewer’s suggestion，we have made correction.  
Drought stress disturbs plant photosynthesis, reduces chlorophyll content and cause damage to photosynthetic apparatus, which ultimately leads to oxidative stress and the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS)[51]. If toxic trace radicals are not quickly removed or inactivated by antioxidant defense system, they can diminish plant growth and yields as a result of intensified MDA production, protein degradation and DNA breakdown and perturbation of cell metabolism[52]. To cope with drought-mediated oxidative stress, plant produce antioxidant, flavonoids, and secondary metabolites play to the role for protecting the plant for detoxifying ROS and protect the plant to protect the abnormal condition (i.e. stress) and protein and amino acid stabilization[53]. The normal physiological metabolism is maintained by removing redundant ROS using some antioxidant enzymes (CAT, POD, SOD, and so on) in plants [54]. Studies showed that a low content of MDA and ROS was closely related to drought and salt tolerance regulated by ROPs in different plants [27][28][29]. This study also found that after 10 days of drought stress, the GhROP3-silenced plants had lower H2O2 and MDA contents in leaves compared with the control plants; also, the activities of three antioxidant enzymes CAT, POD, and SOD significantly increased (Figure 4J-l,N-O). Proline, acting as an osmo-compatible solute and as a non-enzymatic antioxidant, can help decrease cell osmotic potential under stress conditions and stabilize proteins by preserving their chemical structure[53]. Under drought stress, plants can accumulate a certain amount of Pro to improve their osmotic regulation ability and their own stress tolerance [53]. After drought stress, the Pro content in the leaves of GhROP3-silenced plants significantly increased (Figure 4I), indicating that the silencing of the GhROP3 gene improved the osmotic regulation ability of plants. Drought stress induces stomata closure in plant leaves and thus inhibits the photosynthetic activity of chloroplasts. At the same time, under the influence of drought stress, the decomposition rate of chlorophyll in the plant itself tends to increase, while the synthesis rate decreases significantly, resulting in a decreasing trend of its content [54][55]. After drought stress, the total chlorophyll content in the leaves of the silenced plants was significantly higher than that of the control plants (Figure 4M), indicating that, after suppressing the expression of the GhROP3 gene, the silenced plants under drought stress had better light and capacity and nutritional and health statuses than the control plants. The aforementioned results preliminarily indicated that the GhROP3 gene acted as a negative regulator of cotton drought tolerance by accumulating related osmotic regulators and nutrient pigments, increasing the activities of related antioxidant enzymes, and reducing the accumulation of ROS and related oxidative products.

complementary literature 
[51]Liu, Y.Y.; Xi, M.; Li, Y.; Cheng, Z.W.; Wang, S.; Kong, F.L. Improvement in salt tolerance of Iris pseudacorus L. in constructed wetland by exogenous application of salicylic acid and calcium chloride. J Environ Manage. 2021, 300: 113703.
[52]Polle, A. Dissecting the superoxide dismutase-ascorbate glutathione pathway in chloroplasts by metabolic modeling. Computer simulations as a step towards flux analysis. Plant Physiol. 2001, 126:445-462.
[53]Bhusal, N.; Lee, M.; Lee, H.; Adhikari, A.; Han, A.R.; Han, A.; Kim, H.S. Evaluation of morphological, physiological, and biochemical traits for assessing drought resistance in eleven tree species. Sci. Total Environ. 2021, 779: 146466.
[54]Miller, G.A.D.; Suzuki, N.; Ciftci-Yilmaz, S.; Mittler, Ron. Reactive oxygen species homeostasis and signalling during drought and salinity stresses. Plant Cell Environ. 2010, 33: 453-467.

(4) Line no. 380 (Discussion): Drought-related hormones, especially abscisic acid (ABA). Generally, when plants are exposed to the drought, the level of ABA is increased, moreover, the higher the drought intensity higher the ABA concentration. Which is provide the signal from the soil to the root and plant system thoroughly. The ABA hormone regulation is one of the important pathways. The text related to the ABA under different drought intensities is well described in this article https://DOI:10.1016/j.scienta.2018.11.021. Please refer to this article in line no. 380.

Response: lines no 380 the statements of “Plants have evolved a variety of regulatory mechanisms to adapt to stress such as drought, and hormone regulation is one of the important pathways. Among all phytohormones, abscisic acid (ABA) was documented as the hormone most strongly related to the regulation of drought responses in plants “ were corrected as “Plants have evolved a variety of regulatory mechanisms to adapt to stress such as drought, and hormone regulation is one of the important pathways[56]. Drought-related hormones, especially abscisic acid (ABA). Generally, when plants are exposed to the drought, the level of ABA is increased, moreover, the higher the drought intensity higher the ABA concentration. Which is provide the signal from the soil to the root and plant system thoroughly. The ABA hormone regulation is one of the important pathways[59].”

complementary literature 
[59]Bhusal, N.; Han, S.G.; Yoon, T.M. Impact of drought stress on photosynthetic response, leaf water potential, and stem sap flow in two cultivars of bi-leader apple trees (Malus×domestica Borkh.). Sci Hortic-Amsterdam, 2019, 246: 535-543.

(5) Line no. 426 (Conclusion): The conclusion for me comes off as repetitive of the abstract or a summary of the results section. I would love to read striking points and take-home messages that will linger in the readers’ minds. What is the novelty, how does the study elucidate some questions in this field, and the contributions the paper may offer to the scientific community?

Response:We have re-written this part according to the Reviewer’s suggestion
The conclusion “Taken together, all results indicated that the GhROP3 gene might mediate the drought resistance response of cotton by participating in the negative regulation of ABA and the positive regulation of IAA.”  were corrected as ” In this study, reverse genetics approaches were employed to explore a novel biological function, and potential mechanism of ROP genes in drought tolerance of cotton. Our results indicated that GhROP3 functions negatively in response to drought stress and is a potential candidate gene for creating drought resistance of cotton mutant by genome-editing technologies. This research not only provides data for studying the molecular mechanism of cotton drought tolerance but also provides a rationale for breeding novel cotton germplasm resistant to drought stress. “

(6) Line no. 446 (Reference): please double-check the citations, their style, spell check, and other grammatical errors. moreover, I request to the authors for revision throughout the manuscript according to the journal rules.

Response: We are very sorry for our incorrect writing of references. We have made correction according to the Reviewer’s comments. For a comprehensive review see ref.


Special thanks to you for your good comments. 